src/pages/blog/2020-10-28-blog-post-7-databases.md, before:

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: "Blog post #7 Databases"
date: 2020-10-28T19:00:52.385Z
description: ________________________________
featuredpost: false
featuredimage: /img/database.jpg
tags:
  - Node
---
![](/img/database.jpg)

1. SQL is a relational database, and this type of database is the most popular and most widely used database. SQL is the language used in most relational databases. They are typically selected for their quick learning curves and the ability to modify entries quickly and easily. A disadvantage of this type of database is that all the items in the database must be known prior to rolling out the database. This rigidity allows for them to be very powerful when it comes to large scale data systems. The relational structure allows for great encapsulation of data to deter repetition and deeply nested items. 
2. NoSQL These databases do not use SQL as the language of access. Graph databases, Network Databases and Document databases like MongoDB are members of this category. NoSQL databases are extremely changagle and do not need to be completely mapped out in the beginning. They can be easily changed and modified to fit the needs of your application as it progresses through time. This sets them apart from SQL databases and has helped them gain traction among many developers. There are several different types inside of the larger group. Graph, Column and Object are just a few. they are best utilized for projects that need to change data schemas on the fly or are likely to need changes in the future. 
3. Graph Databases use a graph structure for semantic queries, some of these graph databases have a huge advantage in the fact that developers are able to query only the data they are after rather than an entire tree of data.  They are great when needing to analyze data, they typically rely on connections and relationships between nodes and do a great job when needing to gain insight on massive datasets. They were created to fill in some of the limitations of relational databases.

Commit message:

Update Blog “2020-10-28-blog-post-7-databases”

src/pages/blog/2020-10-28-blog-post-7-databases.md, after:

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: "Blog post #8 Todo App Backend"
date: 2020-10-28T19:00:52.385Z
description: ________________________________
featuredpost: false
featuredimage: /img/screen-shot-2020-10-28-at-1.02.34-pm.png
tags:
  - Node
---
![](/img/screen-shot-2020-10-28-at-1.02.34-pm.png)



* How did you design/architect your your app and server?

  My application relies heavily on the front end to handle display using sorting, filtering, and mapping of the todos returned by the database. The server endpoints are only needed to add, mark complete, delete. my front end designed allowed for a simpler integration for the front and back end.

  My application uses the express.static(public) method of displaying the front end files to the web, And uses an express and mongoose server to handle endpoint behavior.

  * How did the front end connect to the backend?

    It connects to the mongoDB using mongoose and that handles all of the necessary endpoints to Edit and display the data as needed.

    I used express and mongoose to connect to my mongoDB database to store and manipulate the data as needed by my front end application.
* Why did you choose the design you did?

  When I was designing the original todo I wanted it to be able to handle most of the functionality from one single array of objects. This design allowed me to quickly implement the backend fetch() calls and make subsequent calls as needed to fill my 3 display sections.
* How did you model you data and why?

  My data model was fairly simple, I only require a Todo with no relations to fully handle all the required endpoints. It relies on the front end to choose how to filter and display the data rather than the relations in the database.
* Why is documentation important?

  Documentation is important to me because often times I forget most of the necessary information I had in my head at the time that I wrote it. Creating good documentation allows me to quickly give myself a reference of what my thought process was at the time of creation. This is meant to help me to remember what function each documented piece of code performs. This becomes vital when revisiting an older piece of code that I have previously written.
